Add alerting & recording rules, series deletion & retention docs (#397)
timescale/promscale: docs/metric_deletion_retention.md

> # Metric Deletion 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Series Deletion
```

> # Metric Deletion 

Reviewer: I'd add a paragraph above as an intro outlining the different types of deletions we support. Namely deletion of entire series or deletion of old data in individual metrics.

Promscale exposes an API for deletion of series. This works same as prometheus delete API.

### Promscale Delete API

URL query parameters:

* **match[]=<series_selector>**: Repeated label matcher argument that selects the series to delete. At least one match[] argument must be provided.
* **start=<rfc3339 | unix_timestamp>**: Start timestamp. Optional and defaults to minimum possible time.

> * **end=<rfc3339 | unix_timestamp>**: End timestamp. Optional and defaults to maximum possible time.

Reviewer: @Harkishen-Singh the start and end options are not supported yet, correct? We should take them out of here then and put a note at the top of this section.

Reviewer 2: Yes, they are not supported. We delete the complete series that match the matchers. (Provided in the `match[]` param)

```
POST /delete_series
PUT /delete_series
```

Example:

```
curl -X POST -g http://promscale:9201/delete_series?match[]=container_cpu_usage_seconds_total
```

> # Metric Retention

Reviewer: We should add a todo to support metric (not series) deletion

Author: Currently, deletion API supports metric & series deletion, right? 
IMO 
metric: `go_goroutines`
series: `go_goroutines{instance: "localhost:9090"}`

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/49859360/how-do-i-delete-a-time-series-from-prometheus-v2-specifically-a-series-of-alert

Reviewer 2: > We should add a todo to support metric (not series) deletion

@cevian Why is that required? Can't just users do `match[]={__name__="<metric_name>"}` or simply `match[]=<metric_name>`?

### Promscale Delete API

URL query parameters:

* **match[]=<series_selector>**: Repeated label matcher argument that selects the series to delete. At least one match[] argument must be provided.
* **start=<rfc3339 | unix_timestamp>**: Start timestamp. Optional and defaults to minimum possible time.
* **end=<rfc3339 | unix_timestamp>**: End timestamp. Optional and defaults to maximum possible time.

```
POST /delete_series
PUT /delete_series
```

Example:

```
curl -X POST -g http://promscale:9201/delete_series?match[]=container_cpu_usage_seconds_total
```

# Metric Retention

TimescaleDB offers full control over data retentions i.e data retention policies can be applied on the complete series ingested and also per metric basis using SQL queries.

SQL cmd to set the default retention policy to two days for all series 

```
SELECT prom_api.set_default_retention_period(INTERVAL '1 day' * 2)
```

SQL cmd to set the retention policy for a specific metric

```
SELECT prom_api.set_metric_retention_period(container_cpu_usage_seconds_total, INTERVAL '1 day' * 2)
```

SQL cmd to reset specific metric retention to the default metric retention

> 

Reviewer 2: I think this line got added in a mistake. (trailing line)

```
SELECT prom_api.reset_metric_retention_period(container_cpu_usage_seconds_total)
```

> The retention policies are executed using a cron job. The details for setting up a crontab can be found [here](https://github.com/timescale/promscale/blob/master/docs/binary.md#-setting-up-cron-jobs) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The retention policies are executed using a cron job. The details for setting up a crontab can be found [here](https://github.com/timescale/promscale/blob/master/docs/binary.md#-setting-up-cron-jobs).
```

> Promscale supports series deletion & metric retention. The series deletion is performed on the entire time-range, whereas the metric retention can be enforced on all the metrics or per metric basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Deleting Data

Promscale supports series deletion & metric retention. Series deletion deletes all data for a specified series over the entire time-range. Metric retention deletes data older than a specified duration for a given metric. You can specify a default metric retention period as well as overwrite that default on a particular metric.  
```

> Promscale supports series deletion & TimescaleDB supports metric retention. The series deletion is performed on the complete series, whereas the metric retention can be enforced on all the metrics or per metric basis.

Reviewer 2: **TimescaleDB supports**

I don't think this is required. WDYT @cevian?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Promscale supports series deletion & metric retention. The series deletion is performed on the entire time-range, whereas the metric retention can be enforced on all the metrics or per metric basis.
```

## Series Deletion

Promscale exposes an API for deletion of series. This works same as prometheus delete API.

> **Note**: The start and end timestamp options are not supported yet. Currently, the `delete_series` API lets you to delete complete series. 

Reviewer 2: I do not understand the meaning of **complete series** (opposite, partial series?). It should be **lets you delete the series across the entire time-range.**

#### Promscale Delete API

URL query parameters:

* **match[]=<series_selector>**: Repeated label matcher argument that selects the series to delete. At least one match[] argument must be provided.

```
POST /delete_series
PUT /delete_series
```

Example:

```
curl -X POST -g http://promscale:9201/delete_series?match[]=container_cpu_usage_seconds_total
```

## Metric Retention

> TimescaleDB offers full control over data retentions i.e data retention policies can be applied on the complete series ingested and also per metric basis using SQL queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TimescaleDB offers full control over data retentions i.e you can set a default data retention period as well as overwrite the default on a per-metric basis.
```

> SQL command to set the default retention policy to two days for all series.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SQL command to set the default retention policy to two days for all metrics that do not have custom retention policy already specified.
```

```
SELECT prom_api.set_default_retention_period(INTERVAL '1 day' * 2)
```

> SQL command to set the retention policy for a specific metric.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SQL command to set a custom retention policy for a specific metric.
```

```
SELECT prom_api.set_metric_retention_period(container_cpu_usage_seconds_total, INTERVAL '1 day' * 2)
```

SQL command to reset specific metric retention to the default metric retention.

```
SELECT prom_api.reset_metric_retention_period(container_cpu_usage_seconds_total)
```

> The retention policies are executed using a cron job. The details for setting up a crontab can be found [here](https://github.com/timescale/promscale/blob/master/docs/binary.md#-setting-up-cron-jobs). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The retention policies are executed using a cron job. Please see the Promscale installation instructions for you platform to see how to set up the cron job. 
```
